# Envineering Investigation and Statistical Analysis (CHEE2010)
## Introduction and background information
Engineering at its heart is about decision making, usually in the face of
incomplete data and uncertainty. Observing, measuring, and correcting for
uncertainty is thus a required part of the education of any engineering
student. In this course, we try t ocommunicate statistics and experimentation
as a part of a set of engineering skills, with a focus on quantitative
estimation. That means we use bservation of uncertainty t oinfer impact on
process outputs and parameters. As such, this course is presented in three key
components;
 - observation of uncertainty
 - estimation of process parameters
 - ways to propagate uncertainty through a pipeline of processes
This course integrates lectures, practical computing and laboratory
experimental work using chemical engineering process equipment.

## Course changes
The content within the course will be presented in a more compact manner than
previous years. This is so students can favour pondering, understanding, and
building concepts rather than learning formulae for exams. In order to
facilitate this method of learning, there will be a particular focus on good
housekeeping with respect to data organisation, manipulation, files, and
reusable codes.

This change will shift the focus of summarising data to present an effect size
as the major finding of the study, and we will use the tools as presented in
previous years to support effect size summaries.

## Getting Started
The tutorials will be presented using Jupyter Notebooks. **Installation
instructions for Python using the Miniconda Distribution**

## Course Structure
The course is delivered over 13 teaching weeks. For any new and important
terms, there will be a glossary section at the end of each tutorial material.

### Week 0
This is to be done in the first week along. Ideally this session should be done
in addition to the content for [Lesson 01](./Lesson01) in the first teaching
week. The following notions will be covered;
 - Principles of data organisation in spreadsheets: the hard and fast rules
 - Computing terminology
 - Basic statistical terminology
 - Programmatic data organisation using
   [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/)

### Week 1
We will revisit some of the most important concepts of chemical engineering as
learned in
[CHEE2001](https://my.uq.edu.au/programs-courses/course.html?course_code=CHEE2001)
such as defining system limits, and constructing mass and energy balances. We
will also revisit the mathematical tools required to succeed in this course
including;
 - order of operations (PEDMAS)
 - abstraction of a function as a map
 - basic calculus
 - basic linear algebra

### Week 2
Probability theory and common probability distribution encountered in chemical
engineering.

### Week 3
We will cover point estimation, delve deeper into the Gaussian distribution,
look at the central limit theorem, and begin to construct confidence intervals.

### Week 4
Hypothesis testing will be covered in this week.

### Week 5
ANOVA and design of experiments

### Week 6
Linear regression modelling: how can we quantify a relationship between a
response and its covariate.

### Week 7
We will extend the work from the previous week to generalise to any function
(commonly called hypothesis). We will learn about common cost functions used to
determine parameters of interest.

### Week 8
This will be an off-teaching week. Students will work on their capstone
proposals together during the tutorial session. They will hand in their report
at the end of this teaching week.
